HOW TO USE reservation_system


0. Introduction

Several questions appear before almost every event with fixed a contingent of
tickets limited to one specific seat each:

How to manage reservations?
Where do we get a simple overview?
Which seats aren't available any more?

Seems as if you found the answer.
In this document, we will work a lot with examples. Our scenario is a small
cinema, which has ten rows and 8 seats per row. The last two rows only consist
of 6 seats, because they are on one level to the door.
Of course, the programs not only written for cinemas/theaters/…, you could even use it for hotel rooms, or even lockers, with only small changes (if you need a "personalized" version, contact us).


1. Terminology

A "room" (or "context") is considered a single purpose for saving reservations.
EXAMPLE:
        Today our cinema shows two movies, "foo" for children in the afternoon,
        and the movie "baz" gets screened in the evening. Even though both of
        them take place in the same PHYSICAL room, we must implement them as
        two different room.
NOTE: In the current version (v0.1.1), it's only possible to create a single
      context. The feature of creating new contexts and switching between them
      is under heavy development.

A "seat" is - well obviously one something that can be sold/rented/whatever.
They can be in four different states: free, reserved,handed, or locked
EXAMPLE: At a short watch through the cinema, the owner recognizes, that one
         of the seat is damaged. The appropriate state for this seat would be
         "LOCKED", it's impossible to sell a ticket for it, and it doesn't even
         appear in any overview.
         The other three states should be self-explanatory ("HANDED" is the
         equivalent to "sold" or "handed out")

A "coordinate" of a seat is its row- and line.

2. Basic usage


2.1 After start 

After start, the program automatically creates a new room, and asks you for
some information.
EXAMPLE:  The name of our evening-show would be "baz" (as this is significant
          enough). We need to create a room with 10 rows and 8 lines.
          Currently, reserve_ticket creates new rooms in the form of a
          completely filled rectangle. 
          Therefore we need to manually hide the four seats in the back by
          locking them. (See section 2.2.7)
NOTE:     A (physical) room-dependant system for automatic invocation of
          predefined layouts is in planning-stadium.


2.2 The Menu

Afterwards you will be see a menu. You can use the specific listed items by
simply typing the number and then hitting <ENTER>
If you are asked for coordinates, and want to cancel the action, just type
0 and <ENTER>

2.2.1 View Room

Shows the current room. You will see something similar to this:

baz
        1       2
1      L|      L|
2      L|      L|

each "L|" is a representation for one seat, and can be displayed in green
(free), yellow (reserved), or red (handed). A locked seat won't show up (except
for the resulting hole in the graphic).

2.2.2 Sell ticket

Used to sell a ticket for a free or reserved seats. Asks for the coordinates.
If the seat is reserved, you will get a message with the location, and the
name of the person the seat is reserved for. You will have to confirm.
A ticket can be sold only if the current state is FREE or RESERVED

2.2.3 Reserve ticket

Asks for coordinates, then for the name of the person the tickets should be
reserved for. You can only reserve a seat that currently is free.

2.2.4 Hand out reserved ticket

Same as 2.2.2

2.2.5 Cancel reservation

Wants the coordinates. The current state must be "RESERVED".

2.2.6 Take back ticket

Usually, there is some kind of "No return of sold tickets", but if there are
real needs to take back tickets, you will need this item. Just give it the
coordinates, and then approve your decision.

2.2.7 Make seat unavailable

Used for two purposes:
1. Remove non existing seats
EXAMPLE:  Our owner would need to lock the seats 7 and 8 in rows 9 and 10, each
          one separately (that sucks, I know, we're on to it)
2. Remove unusable seats
EXAMPLE:  Well, maybe someone was just too fat and his chair broke down (By the
          way, would you use command number 6 in that case??)

NOTE:     RESERVATIONS or HANDOUTS do net get preserved! You will need to
          re-process them manually!

2.2.8 Make seat available

EXAMPLE:  If the owner recognized the guy wasn't THAT fat...

2.2.0 EXIT

Exits program, after asking for confirmation.
NOTE: Currently, there's no possibility to save the current state of a room!
